Andile Mpisane, the brother of Sbahle Mpisane has today shared a video on Instagram showing a glimpse of her since horror car crash on August 9. A message from Sbahle Mpisane! We're happy to see her well on the road to recovery! pic.twitter.com/A46HT4gEMP — I Love Mornings (@ILoveMornings) September 11, 2018  In the video, the TV star thanked all South Africans who have been praying for her. “Hey guys today is the 11 of September, it’s my parent’s anniversary and we are very excited. And also I am sick today. Thank you guys all the fans for helping make me feel better, all the presents and everything else. And my sister for bringing me a present today. I love you guys, I love my parents so much and I love my brother for all the presents you brought for me. Thank you guys, thank you guys again,” she said. Despite celebrating her recovery, Sbahle and her brother were also celebrating their parents Anniversary on the other hand. “Celebrating our parents Anniversary with my sister Sbahle and brought my @royal_am10 glam squad to pamper her up . We the Mpisane’s would like to thanks everyone for the support and prays”, said Andile on  Instagram. Many of Sbahle’s fans were excited to see her for the first time since the accident:  A message from Sbahle Mpisane! We’re happy to see her well on the road to recovery! pic.twitter.com/A46HT4gEMP — I Love Mornings (@ILoveMornings) September 11, 2018   I keep watching tha Sbahle video over and over again. Your life can change in an instant….all of the sudden I’m sad — MrsYasiinBey (@Metanoia_1984) September 11, 2018  Sbahle’s brave. She’s got a long way to go but that short video was brave. I hope she documents her journey back to 100%. From the post surgery care to the therapy, the works. — Nobleman (@WayneHarper_) September 11, 2018  Sbahle’s Recovery is just another one of God’s Miracles. Her life before and after has been a Testimony. If you don’t believe in HIM , Angazi ngempela, yaz angazi — TKaula (@TKaula) September 11, 2018  A message from Sbahle Mpisane! We're happy to see her well on the road to recovery! pic.twitter.com/A46HT4gEMP — I Love Mornings (@ILoveMornings) September 11, 2018 