JOHANNESBURG, September 10  – Former president Jacob Zuma, ANC secretary Ace Magashule and others who are alleged to have attended secret meetings in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, plotting to remove President Cyril Ramaphosa as head of the governing party, should give answers and not the ANC, spokesman Zizi Kodwa said on Monday. He said the African National Congress (ANC) does not hold secret meetings. “We do not know if there was such a meeting or not, but the people who were there are best placed to respond to questions about the gathering. The ANC, as it has always done, [invites journalists] to a photo opportunity at its meetings so that it is not suspected what an ANC [national executive committee] NEC meeting is all about,” Kodwa told reporters on the sidelines of the state capture commission of inquiry in Johannesburg. “So we cannot speak on behalf of people who were in that meeting…what we are ceased with is unity and renewal of the organisation.” When asked whether the ANC has inquired from Magashule about the meeting, Kodwa replied: “It is not for us [the ANC] to ask what the meeting was about, whether there is an issue or a plot by people in some meeting…we cannot as the ANC talk about a meeting we were not part of.” He reiterated his stance that the ANC is “not on trial” at the commission. Kodwa added that the outcome of the December 2017 conference where Ramaphosa was elected, will not change, “despite the wishes of those inside or outside the ANC”. The Sunday Times reported over the weekend that top figures in the ANC, including Magashule, were holding secret meetings plotting to remove Ramaphosa. Zuma, Magashule, North West’s former premier Supra Mahumapelo, ANC Women’s League secretary Matuba Meokgo and ANC Youth League (ANCYL) KwaZulu-Natal leader Thanduxolo Sabelo reportedly met on Thursday at Maharani hotel in Durban. That meeting, according to the newspaper, was preceded by another one the previous day in Umhlanga Rocks, where former SAA board chairwoman Dudu Miyeni was in attendance. The group, which supported Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to take over from the former president, is said to be setting their eyes on challenging the outcomes of the December conference, claiming massive irregularities at branches and that most of the conference delegates were illegitimate. The two Gupta-owned media outlets, ANN7 television news channel and The New Age newspaper, received R260 million from South African government departments, with R248 million of the amount having gone to the newspaper, the inquiry into state capture heard. Jan Gilliland, an official at national Treasury and accountant, testified how he tracked and traced payments to the Gupta media entities between 2004 and July 2018. TNA was launched in 2010, while ANN7 started broadcasting three years later in 2013. Evidence leader Vincent Maleka told the commission that Gilliland’s evidence was the third part, completing ”the story of GCIS” after former government spin doctor Themba Maseko and acting GCIS CEO Phumla Williams testified how they were pressured to channel government advertising budgets to Gupta-owned media titles. Gilliland said he used the BAS (Basic Accounting System) payment method applied by national and provincial treasury, to track and trace government payments for goods and services made by departments. This came after the Hawks started investigating a R55 million payment to the Gupta media outlets and approached Williams, querying the payment. ”This concept becomes important in the context of your mandate regarding the procurement of goods and services, including payments that are the subject of this commission, either because they are underpinned by state capture, corruption or fraud,” Maleka told commission chairman Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Gilliland said the Guptas received small amounts from 2004, which jumped significantly in 2008 when they received over R1 million. By 2011 a total of R6 million had been transferred. It had increased to R29 million by 2012. When ANN7 was launched in 2013, the media outlets had received R30 million. Maleka said it could be assumed that ANN7 earned money from government from the day it went on air. Total amounts for 2014 and 2016 were R51 million and R66 million respectively. The Gupta cash bonanza from the State started to decrease from 2016 when the family received R43 million. Only R27 million was received in 2017, a significant decrease compared to the previous year. From January 2018, the newspaper had received R3.7 million until the demise of The New Age in July. Owner Mzwanele Manyi, who took over control of the Gupta media titles through a vendor financing deal, successfully liquidated the company, citing insolvency. Regarding payments by provinces to the Guptas, the Free State under its former premier Ace Magashule, transferred R79 million, while KwaZulu-Natal was second with payments totaling R29 million. Gillian’s evidence was presented in slides showing graphs of payments over the years. (ANA)