DURBAN, September 7 – African National Congress (ANC) heavyweight, Zizi Kodwa, on Thursday, said that the governing party’s manifesto prior to the 2019 general election must focus on youth, specifically youth unemployment, and the expropriation of land without compensation. “The biggest element of our manifesto must be about young people – the youth. This comes from different research institutes. South Africa is a very youthful country and the unemployment among young people must be dealt with decisively,” he said. The cost of data  – a financial strain on the youth and the poor – would also be addressed as part of the manifesto, he said. The party had made a submission to Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA) and would be meeting with various providers to discuss data costs, he said. Kodwa was speaking at Durban’s Coastland Hotel, south beach during a KZN manifesto stakeholders’ forum. Representatives from business, academia, the governing party’s leagues and unions were in attendance. The manifesto would also have to deal with expropriation of land without compensation, he said. “This is not about taking from [one person and giving to another]. It’s about restoration of dignity of the majority of people who are dispossessed. There is nothing as honourable as owning a piece of land, including a house. Title deeds are part of restoring dignity,” he said. Speaking about “challenges” experienced in the party since 1994, Kodwa said the ANC could not attribute problems to “this person or that person”; “It was the ANC,” he said. “We come to the people when we have done something right and we must come back to the people to explain the difficulties we are facing,” he said, such as the current state of the economy. “If the economy is not growing, you can’t talk about new jobs. We are in a technical recession,” he said. The ANC was the only party that made known its achievements and was honest about making mistakes, he said.  The ANC then needed to provide solutions. The party was renewing itself, he said, and had learned a lot from the 2016 local government elections, during which the party lost significant support. “There is a big body of people who no longer trust the ANC. People can only trust you on the basis of your actions,” he said. Touching on the ruling party’s relationship with its alliance partners, Kodwa said difficulties experienced in the alliance had been “problems created amongst ourselves”, but they were being “worked on”. Alliance secretariats were meeting regularly since the Nasrec conference, he said, to reorganise themselves as leaders of society. “If one of the pillars of the ANC is weak, the ANC is weak,” he said. The ANC was “incomplete” without its alliance partners, he said. “For the ANC to be able to live for 106 years and to adapt to new changing times is because of the ability and thinking of the South African Communist Party,” he said. The party’s National Executive Committee will decide in September when its manifesto will be launched. (ANA)