JOHANNESBURG, September 19 – Recession, high unemployment rate and a negative credit rating were some of the catastrophic results of state capture on a country, the commission of inquiry into state capture heard on Wednesday. International expert Daniel Kauffman, an economist and social scientist from Chile, gave evidence on the impact of state capture. Kauffman and another academic colleague, Joel Hellman, have for decades, studied and researched the state capture phenomenon across the world. Kauffmann said that state capture came in many forms and had many people from the private sector who “shaped the rules of the game”. “They can shape the rules, policies, institutions and regulations that could make the State function or not. State capture in its extreme form, is when it becomes the State itself,” said Kauffmann. Possible persons that could be captured include a State president, ministers, government officials, councillors and the judiciary. Kauffmann said there could be many state capture enablers and intermediaries that are not easy to identify. “These are important ‘facilitators’ of state capture and can include finance and tax advisers, private accountants, international traders, lawyers and so on. It is not easy to identify as the challenge is one of doing a proper, in-depth diagnosis of every country, if that is done – a proper investigation processes accompanied by political will and resolve – it should be possible to identify those facilitators.” In some countries, the captors control facilitators and can ultimately seize the State. The mafia, drug traders and powerful illicit economic interests can play a role, said Kauffmann. Potential sectors that can be captured include energy, industries such as mining, communication channels and the military. Kauffmann added that sudden sponsorships and donations, establishments of charities and foundations, illicit political finance and financial benefits for dependents and family members and the members of the executive, are the red flags for potential state capture. The dire results of state capture can be seen in a country plunging into a recession, the erosion of the economy which can also affect a country’s borrowing capacity and economic competitiveness, increase in unemployment and social grant dependency, and the devastation experienced by the poor. Commission chairman Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo asked Kaufmann for his views on what can be done to create a regulatory framework to protect bureaucrats such as director-generals if they do not follow instructions to do something wrong from their “political master”, referring to a minister, and risk losing their jobs. “Is there a framework that can encourage director-generals to say no to any instructions that directs them to do wrong or to say no to state capture and corruption without being vulnerable to being transferred to another department or losing their jobs?” asked Zondo. Kauffmann said one mechanism, that of the use and protection of whistleblowing, can be easily implemented but would not always bear intended results. “Even if there may be the good intention on paper on whistleblower policy, the person [whistleblower] might have serious doubts on whether he or she will be fully protected. One would not want that undue pressure from his or her masters, but there should be a situation where the director-general is able to say ‘do you know that I could end up in jail if I do that?'” “A deterrent would be to make sure there are serious sanctions, allowing the director-general not to think twice about doing anything wrong on instructions.” He added that even after investigations are completed and findings made, impunity continues to rule if the captors are not brought to book. The then minerals resources minister, Mosebenzi Zwane, pressured Nedbank to take over banking services for the controversial Gupta family and ”save jobs” after other major banks closed their business accounts in South Africa. Nedbank CEO Mike Brown told the state capture commission of inquiry on Wednesday that he was requested to a meeting with the inter-ministerial committee (IMC), led by Zwane. Brown was accompanied by two other executives at the meeting held at Zwane’s office in Pretoria in May 2016. Brown said Zwane opened the meeting and expressed dissatisfaction that some banks refused to attend IMC meetings, and then proceeded to talk about the powers of the committee. Brown said he felt this was ”a veiled threat”. Brown said despite his insisting that the relationship with bank’s clients can never be discussed, Zwane delved into the closing of the Gupta accounts. ”I felt that numerous references to [banking] licensing regime was pressure put on the bank. At the closing of the meeting, Zwane requested Nedbank to take over banking transactions and become Gupta banker, since all banks closed their accounts,” testified Brown. It turned out that Zwane was the only minister at the meeting. Brown said the invitation sent to the bank had stated that the IMC consisted of Zwane, then communication minister Faith Muthambi, Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant and then finance minister Pravin Gordhan. However, Muthambi, Gordhan and Oliphant were not at the meeting. Attendees were committee secretary, a Ms. Kellerman, Herbert Mkhize whom Zwane said represented Oliphant and two others purportedly representing Gordhan and Muthambi, but were never introduced or named at the meeting. ”I was assured by minister Zwane that the minister of finance [Gordhan] was aware of the meeting, but I found it odd that the finance minister was not there … although Ms. Kellerman had stated that the committee would be appropriately represented,” said Brown. “I expected that the IMC would have, within its mandate a quorum as it is in any other meeting. I expected the minister of finance to be present given his overarching oversight over the banking sector.” Brown told the state capture inquiry, chaired by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, that he then asked his secretary to get the full names of those who attended the IMC. Kellerman responded in writing saying that those present were Muthambi and her adviser Mzwanele Manyi, minister Oliphant and her adviser and Zwane and his adviser. However, Brown told the commission that: ”Kellerman’s response was untrue, Muthambi, Manyi and Oliphant did not attend.” Nedbank investigated and closed the Gupta accounts belonging to holding company Oakbay Investments, Islandsite, Confident Concept, Sahara Computers and VR Lazer. Brown testified that keeping the accounts posed an associated risk, more so after KPMG terminated its relationship with the Guptas. ”In terms of the process we followed, we constituted a committee – properly represented and including myself, head of banking risk, legal, business banking and other frontline business heads – to review the relationship with the Gupta family,” said Brown. “The committee met on April 6, and around that time there were also media reports of FNB and Absa having terminated accounts. We concluded at that meeting that reputation damage to Nedbank would be too great … and in addition to that, we also had contractual right to terminate banking relationship.” Nedbank gave the Gupta companies a notice period of 30 days on intention to close accounts. Former Oakbay CEO Nazeem Howa met with the bank in the interim period, urging them to reverse their decision. Similar to the testimony from the other banks, Brown said the bank was also called to a meeting with ANC bigwigs at Luthuli House on April 20. Then secretary general Gwede Mantashe, his deputy Jessie Duarte and Enoch Godongwana attended. The ANC leaders said they wanted to get a ”better understanding” as to why banks closed bank accounts, the impact on the investment confidence and that banks ”colluded” and closed the accounts. Brown said he explained the broad framework of the FICA, other regulations and the role of banks in the general public. (ANA)